#This file was created by <Sinisa> Wed Nov 10 22:12:52 1999
#LyX 0.12 (C) 1995-1998 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass book
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{html}

\begin{htmlonly}

\renewenvironment{lyxcode}
  {\begin{list}{}{
    \setlength{\rightmargin}{\leftmargin}
    \raggedright
    \setlength{\itemsep}{0pt}
    \setlength{\parsep}{0pt}
    \ttfamily}%
   \item[] 
   \begin{ttfamily}}
   {\end{ttfamily}
    \end{list} }

\newenvironment{LyXParagraphIndent}[1]%
{\begin{quote}}
{\end{quote}}

\end{htmlonly}
\end_preamble
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\float_placement h
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\leftmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\secnumdepth 2
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Mysql++ 
\newline 
A C++ API for Mysql
\newline 
ver 1.3
\layout Author

Kevin Atkinson
\newline 
(kevinatk@home.com)
\newline 
 Sinisa Milivojevic
\newline 
(sinisa@cytanet.com.cy)
\newline 
Michael Widenius
\newline 
(monty@mysql.com)
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \tableofcontents

\end_inset 


\layout Part*

Introductory Material
\layout Chapter

Introduction
\layout Section

What is Mysql++
\layout Standard

Mysql++ is a complex C++ API for Mysql (And other SQL Databases Soon).
 The goal of this API is too make working with Queries as easy as working
 with other STL Containers.
 See the Overview chapter (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{Overview}

\end_inset 

) for the components that make up Mysql++.
\layout Section

Getting Mysql++
\layout Standard

The latest version of Mysql++ can be found at the mysql++ web site at http://www.
mysql.com/mysql++.
\layout Section

Mysql++ Mailing List
\layout Standard

Instructions for joining the mailing list (and an archive of the mailing
 list) can be found off the Mysql++ home page at http://www.mysql.com/mysql++
\layout Chapter

Overview
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{Overview}

\end_inset 

The Mysql++ API has developed into a very complex and powerful being.
 With many different ways to accomplish the same task.
 Unfortunately this means that figuring out how to perform a simple task
 can be frustrating for new users of my library.
 In this section I will attempt to provide an overview of the many different
 components of the library.
\layout Standard

Like working with most other SQL API the process for executing queries is
 the same.
 1) You open the connection, 2) You form and execute the queries, 3) You
 iterate through the result set.
 It not much different in my C++ API.
 However there is a lot of extra functionality along each step of the way.
\layout Section*

The Main Database Handle
\layout Standard

This is a class that handles the connection to the Mysql server.
 You always need at least one of these objects to do anything.
 It can either create a separate queries object or directly execute queries.
 The separate query object is the recommended way as it gives you far more
 power.
\layout Section*

The Query Object
\layout Standard

This object is the recommended way of executing queries.
 It is subclassed from strstream which means you can write to it like any
 other stream to aid in the formation of queries.
\layout Standard

You can also set up Template queries with this class.
 Template queries are a way of setting up queries with replaceable parameters
 that you can change throughout your program.
\layout Standard

You can also use specialized structures and even the dramatic result sets
 to aid in creating queries however more on that latter.
\layout Standard

The Query object returns an object with information about the success of
 a query for non-select queries (queries that don't return a result set).
\layout Section*

The Result Sets
\layout Standard

For queries that return a result set you have essentially two different
 ways of handling the results: in a dramatic result set, or in a static
 one.
\layout Subsection*

The Dramatic Result Set
\layout Standard

The Dramatic Result set is a result set in which the names of the columns
 and the type of information of the columns does not need to be determined
 at compile time.
 The result set can be completely constant in which the data is returned
 to you in a constant string link class, semi-constant in which you can
 modify the data one row at a time, or a truly mutable in which in you can
 modify the data in any way you like.
\layout Standard

The constant result set is a result set that is closely bound to the result
 set in the C API and is the one that provides the most functionality.
 With this result set you can find out detailed information about the type
 of information stored in each of the columns.
 This is also the fastest because the data does not need to be copied at
 all.
\layout Standard

The semi-constant result set is like the constant result set except you
 can modify the data one row at a time.
 The data you modify is actually a copy of the data returned by the server.
 This means that modifying the data does not change the actual result set
 at all.
\layout Standard

The semi-constant result set is actually the same thing as the constant
 result set.
 The only difference is that when you request a row from the result set
 you specifically declare the row as a mutable one.
 This means that you can get some rows back as constant rows and others
 as mutable ones.
\layout Standard

The truly mutable result set is a result set similar to the constant one
 except that the data is truly mutable in the sense that you can change
 the data in the actual result set.
 However unlike the first one this result set is not bound to the C API
 result set.
 Instead it containers a copy of the data returned by the C API in a two-dimensi
onal vector.
 Because of this the detailed information about each of the columns is not
 currently available, only the column names and the C++ type that most closely
 matches the original SQL type.
 Also, because it makes a copy of the data returned from the C API, there
 is a little bit of performance penalty to using this one.
\layout Standard

The rows in all the dramatic result sets are very close to an Standard Template
 Library (STL) random access container.
 This means that they have an iterator which can be used for STL algorithms.
 There is even couple of specialized utility function to aid in the use
 of the result sets in STL algorithms.
\layout Standard

The columns in all the dramatic result are also very close to an STL random
 access container.
 However, in addition to accessing the columns by there index number you
 can also access the columns via there field names.
\layout Standard

In addition, because both the rows and the columns are STL like containers,
 you can also treat the result set as a two- dimensional array.
 For example you can get the 5th item on the 2nd row by simply saying result[2][
5].
 Because you can also use the field names you can substitute the column
 number by a field name and say result[2]["price"] to get "price" of the
 item on the 2nd row, for example.
\layout Standard

The actual data that all the dramatic result sets return is stored in a
 special string like class that has some additional magic too it.
 The magic is that the column data will automatically convert itself into
 all of the basic data types as well as some additional types types that
 are designed to handle mysql types which includes types for handling dates,
 times, sets, and types with a null value.
 If there is a problem in the conversion it will either set a warning flag
 or throw an exception depending on how it is configured.
\layout Standard

The drastic result sets can even be used to help form queries with the help
 of some additional method.
 There is a method for returns: 1) A comma separated list of the data (for
 example: 1.5, 10, "Dog, "Brown"), 2) A comma separated list of the field
 names (for example: age, weight, what, color), and 3) An equal list (for
 example: age = 1.5 AND weight = 10 AND what = "Dog" AND color = "Brown").
\layout Standard

Mutable result sets can be created with out an actual query so that you
 can take advantage of these methods to aid in inserting data into the database
 with out having to first create an unnecessary query.
\layout Subsection*

The Static Result Sets
\layout Standard

The results from an query can also be stored statically in what I call a
 specialized SQL structure.
 These structures are then stored in some STL container such a vector or
 list, or even a set or multi-set as the the specialized structures can
 also be made less-than-comparable.
 Unlike the dramatic result sets it is assumed that the programmer knows
 what the result set is going to look like.
 Because of this all the information about the columns, including the names,
 are lost.
\layout Standard

These Specialized Structures are exactly that C++ `structs'.
 Each member item is stored with a unique name within the structure.
 You can in no way use STL algorithms or anything else STL to work with
 the individual elements of the structures.
 However naturally because these structures are then stored in STL containers
 you can use STL algorithms on the containers of these structures.
 The containers represent the rows, and the individual elements of the structure
 represent the columns.
 For example you can access the item named "price" on the second row by
 saying result[2].price.
 With the dramatic result set you would have probably needed to say result[2]["p
rice"] to accomplish the same result.
\layout Standard

If there is a problem in converting from the result set returned by the
 server to the specialized structures an exception is thrown.
\layout Standard

To aid in the creating of queries using these specialized structures, the
 same query aiding methods are available to use that are available for the
 dramatic result sets.
 This includes methods for returning a comma separated list of the data,
 a comma separated list of the field names, and an equal list.
\layout Section*

In addition
\layout Standard

In addition to the material mentioned there are also many generic classes
 that can be used with other programs.
 Examples of this include a special const string class, a const random access
 adapter that will make a random access container out of a class with nothing
 but the size() method and the subscript ([]) operator defined and a generic
 SQL query class that can be used any SQL C or C++ API.
\layout Chapter

Important Changes 
\layout Standard

I will try to keep the changes that will break old code to a minimal however
 when I do I will document them here.
 Once this library goes into alpha testing this section will no longer exist
 as I will try very hard not to make changes that will break old code.
\layout Section

Current Changes
\layout Itemize

Changed the syntax of equal_list for SSQLS from 
\series bold 
equal_list (cchar *, Manip, cchar *)
\series default 
 to 
\series bold 
equal_list (cchar *, cchar *, Manip)
\series default 
.
\layout Itemize

Mysql++ now runs with egcs.
 But 
\noun on 
beware !,
\noun toggle 
 do not yet use -O6 -mpentium options are still unsafe for g++, with a heavy
 use of constant and static initializers, and especially with C++ exceptions
 .
 Also, please try to keep all objects as local as possible.
 Declare it in the lowest blocks always !!
\layout Itemize

The 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

connection
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 constructors for 
\series bold 
Connection
\series default 
 and 
\series bold 
Connection::connect
\series default 
 (formally known as 
\series bold 
Mysql
\series default 
) has changed so that the data base name is the first paremeter.
\layout Itemize

All new client feature implemented in 3.22.xx as various options on connect
 are mplemented in a new constructor and real_connect method
\layout Itemize

Mysql++ now can be compiled on Win32 with use of Cygwin compiler from Cygnus
 Inc.
\layout Itemize

Autoconf and Automake are fully implemented
\layout Itemize

The Specialized SQL Structures (formally known as Custom Mysql Structures)
 changed from mysql_ to sql_.
\layout Itemize

Changed all of the functions that return zero (false) on success and non-zero
 (true) other wise to bool.
 This means that they now return true on success and false on faillier.
 This means that you now need to negate your expressions that test the output
 of these functions.
 
\layout Itemize

Corrected bugs in sql_query.cc regarding delete versus delete[] and string
 length in manip.cc
\layout Itemize

Almost all methods that returned MysqlString now return a normal string.
 Because 
\series bold 
MysqlString
\series default 
 objects will convert them selves into string when needed there should not
 be a problem with: 
\begin_deeper 
\layout LyX-Code

MysqlString s = mysql.host_info
\end_deeper 
\layout Itemize

The data type 
\series bold 
MysqlRow
\series default 
 now returns (
\series bold 
MysqlString
\series default 
 or 
\series bold 
MysqlColData
\series default 
) is now subclassed from a special string class that I wrote to handle working
 with a const string in a much more efficient way (ie it doesn't copy it).
 Unfortunitlly this data type is also more limited see the section on "const_str
ing" for more info.
\layout Itemize

All necessary methods pertaining to the administration funcitons have been
 added
\layout Section

Future Changes
\layout Itemize

The behavior of MysqlString when used with binary operators is going to
 change in a future version (if I can figure out how to pull it off) Instead
 of converting to the type on the other side of the operator the MysqlString
 will it convert to the type the Mysql server said it originally was.
 This will be a lot safer and more predictable.
\layout Part*

Usage
\layout Chapter

Tutorial by Example
\layout Section

Introduction
\layout Standard

This tutorial is meant to give you a jump start into using my API.
 My Mysql++ API is a very complicated being with a lot of advance features
 that you can due without if all you want to do is execute simple queries.
\layout Section

Assumptions
\layout Standard

This tutorial assumes you know C++ fairly well, inparticuler it assumes
 you know about the Standard Template Library (STL) and exceptions.
\layout Section

Running the Examples
\layout Standard

All of the example code form complete running programs.
 However in order to use them you need to first compile them my switching
 to the examples directory and typing in 
\family typewriter 
make
\family default 
.
 Then you need to set up the database by running reset-db.
 The usage of the reset-db program is as follows.
\layout LyX-Code

reset-db [host [user [password]]]
\layout Standard

If you leave off host localhost is assumed.
 If you leave off user your current username is assumed.
 If you leave of the password it is assumed that you don't need one.
\layout Standard

When you first run the program you need to give it an account with permission
 to create databases.
 Once the database is created you can use any account that has permission
 full permission to the database mysql_cpp_data.
 
\layout Standard

You should also run the reset-db program between examples that modify the
 data or else things might not work right.
\layout Section

The Basics
\layout Subsection

A Simple Example
\layout Standard

The following example demonstrates how to open a connection, execute a simple
 query, and display the results.
 The code can be found in the file 
\family typewriter 
simple1.cc
\family default 
 which is located in the examples directory.
\layout Comment

example:simple1.cc
\layout LyX-Code-Sans

#include <iostream> 
\newline 
#include <iomanip> 
\newline 
#include <sqlplus.hh>
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 
int main() {
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 Connection con("mysql_cpp_data");
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 // The full format for the Connection constructor is
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 // Connection(cchar *db, cchar *host="", 
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 //
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cchar *user="", cchar *passwd="") 
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 // You may need to specify some of them if the database is not on
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 // the local machine or you database username is not the same as your
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 // login name, etc..
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 
 Query query = con.query();
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 // This creates a query object that is bound to con.
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 
 query << "select * from stock";
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 // You can write to the query object like you would any other ostrem
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 
 Result res = query.store();
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 // Query::store() executes the query and returns the results
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 
 cout << "Query: " << query.preview() << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 // Query::preview() simply returns a string with the current query
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 // string in it.
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 
 cout << "Records Found: " << res.size() << endl << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 Row row;
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 cout.setf(ios::left);
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 cout << setw(17) << "Item" 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << setw(4)
\protected_separator 
 << "Num"
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << setw(7)
\protected_separator 
 << "Weight"
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << setw(7)
\protected_separator 
 << "Price" 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << "Date" << endl
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 Result::iterator i;
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 // The Result class has a read-only Random Access Iterator
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 for (i = res.begin(); i != res.end(); i++) {
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 row = *i;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout << setw(17) << row[0] 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << setw(4)
\protected_separator 
 << row[1] 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << setw(7)
\protected_separator 
 << row["weight"]
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // you can use either the index number or column name when
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // retrieving the colume data as demonstrated above.
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << setw(7)
\protected_separator 
 << row[3]
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << row[4] << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 }
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 return 0;
\newline 
}
\layout Standard

Everything here should be fairly obvious.
 Take particular notice of how I used an iterator with the result set.
\layout Subsection

A slightly more complicated example
\layout Standard

This example is almost like the previous one however it uses exceptions
 and the automatic conversion feature of 
\series bold 
ColData
\series default 
.
 Pay particular notice to how exceptions are used.
 This file for this code is named 
\family typewriter 
complic1.cc
\family default 
.
\layout Comment

example:complic1.cc
\layout LyX-Code-Sans

#include <iostream>
\newline 
#include <iomanip>
\newline 
#include <sqlplus.hh>
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 
int main() {
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 try { // its in one big try block
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 Connection con(use_exceptions);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 con.connect("mysql_cpp_data");
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // Here I broke making the connection into two calls.
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // The first one creates the Connection object with the 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // use exceptions option turned on and the second one
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // makes the connection
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 Query query = con.query();
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 query << "select * from stock";
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 Result res = query.store();
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout << "Query: " << query.preview() << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout << "Records Found: " << res.size() << endl << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 Row row;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout.setf(ios::left);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout << setw(17) << "Item" 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << setw(4)
\protected_separator 
 << "Num"
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << setw(7)
\protected_separator 
 << "Weight"
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << setw(7)
\protected_separator 
 << "Price" 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << "Date" << endl
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 Result::iterator i;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout.precision(3);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 for (i = res.begin(); i != res.end(); i++) {
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 row = *i;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout << setw(17) << row["item"] << setw(4) << row[1] 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << setw(7)
\protected_separator 
 << (double)row[2]
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
// This is converting the row to a double so that we
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
// can set the precision of it.
\protected_separator 
 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
// ColData has the nice feature that it will convert to
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
// any of the basic c++ types.
\protected_separator 
 if there is a problem
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
// in the conversion it will throw an exception (which I 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
// cache below).
\protected_separator 
 To test it try changing the 2 in row[2]
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
// to row[0]
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << setw(7) << (double)row[3];
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 Date date = row["sdate"]; 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // The ColData is implicitly converted to a date here.
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout.setf(ios::right);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout.fill('0');
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout << setw(2) << date.month << "-" << setw(2) << date.day << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout.fill(' ');
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout.unsetf(ios::right);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 }
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 return 0;
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 } catch (BadQuery er) { // handle any connection or
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // query errors that may come up
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cerr << "Error: " << er.error << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 return -1;
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 } catch (BadConversion er) { // handle bad conversions
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cerr << "Error: Tried to convert 
\backslash 
"" << er.data << "
\backslash 
" to a 
\backslash 
"" 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << er.type_name << "
\backslash 
"." << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 return -1;
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 }
\newline 
}
\layout Standard

Everything should be fairly obvious.
 A few notes about exceptions, however:
\layout Enumerate

When the 
\series bold 
use_exceptions
\series default 
 flag is set for a parent object it is also set for all of its children
 the it created after the flag is set.
 For example when the 
\series bold 
use_exceptions
\series default 
 flag is set for the 
\family typewriter 
con
\family default 
 object, it is also set for the 
\family typewriter 
query
\family default 
 object.
 Please note that the 
\series bold 
use_exceptions
\series default 
 flag is not linked, it is copied.
 This means that when you change the 
\series bold 
use_exceptions
\series default 
 flag only its new children are affected, 
\emph on 
not
\emph default 
 the ones it already created.
\layout Enumerate


\series bold 
ColData
\series default 
 will always throw an exception when it encounters a bad conversion.
 A bad conversion is defined as a conversion in which: a) All the charters
 from the string are not read in and b) The remaining characters are something
 other than whitespace, zeros (0), or periods (.).
 This means that when ``1.25'' is converted into an int an exception will
 be thrown however not when ``1.00'' is converted into an int as the remaining
 characters are the period and the zero.
 
\layout Standard

To see how the exception work try creating an error.
 Some good things to try would be misspelling the table name or changing
 the double to an int.
\layout Subsection

Getting Info about the Fields
\layout Standard

The following example demonstrates how to get some basic information about
 the fields, including the name of the field and the SQL type.
 The file is called fieldinfo1.cc.
\layout Comment

example:fieldinf1.cc
\layout LyX-Code-Sans

#include <iostream>
\newline 
#include <iomanip>
\newline 
#include <sqlplus.hh>
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 
int main() {
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 try { // its in one big try block
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 Connection con(use_exceptions);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 con.connect("mysql_cpp_data");
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 Query query = con.query();
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 query << "select * from stock";
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 Result res = query.store();
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout << "Query: " << query.preview() << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout << "Records Found: " << res.size() << endl << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout << "Query Info:
\backslash 
n";
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout.setf(ios::left);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 for (unsigned int i = 0; i < res.size(); i++) {
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout << setw(2)
\protected_separator 
 << i
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << setw(15) << res.names(i).c_str()
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
// this is the name of the field
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << setw(15) << res.types(i).sql_name()
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
// this is the SQL identifier name
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
// Result::types(unsigned int) returns a mysql_type_info which in many
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
// ways is like type_info except that it has additional sql type
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
// information in it.
 (with one of the methods being sql_name())
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << setw(20) << res.types(i).name()
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
// this is the C++ identifier name which most closely resembles
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
// the sql name (its is implementation defined and often not very readable)
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 }
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 if (res.types(0) == typeid(string))
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout << "Field 'item' is of an sql type which most closely resembles a
\backslash 
n"
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << "the c++ string type
\backslash 
n";
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // this is demonstrating how a mysql_type_info can be compared with a c++
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // type_info.
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 if (res.types(1) == typeid(short int))
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout << "Field 'num' is of an sql type which most closely resembles a
\backslash 
n"
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << "the c++ short int type
\backslash 
n";
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 else if (res.types(1).base_type() == typeid(short int))
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout << "Field 'num' base type is of an sql type which most closely 
\backslash 
n"
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << "resembles a the c++ short int type
\backslash 
n";
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // However you have to be careful as if it can be null the actual type
 is 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // Null<TYPE> not TYPE.
\protected_separator 
 So you should always use the base_type method
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // to get at the underlying type.
\protected_separator 
 If the type is not null than this base
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // type would be the same as its type.
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 return 0;
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 } catch (BadQuery er) {
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cerr << "Error: " << er.error << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 return -1;
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 } catch (BadConversion er) { // handle bad conversions
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cerr << "Error: Tried to convert 
\backslash 
"" << er.data << "
\backslash 
" to a 
\backslash 
"" 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << er.type_name << "
\backslash 
"." << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 return -1;
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 }
\newline 
}
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\layout Section

Specialized SQL Structures
\layout Subsection

Retrieving Data
\layout Standard

The next example demonstrates a fairly interesting concept known as Specialized
 SQL Structures (SSQLS).
 The file name for this code is 
\family typewriter 
custom1.cc
\family default 
.
\layout Comment

example:custom1.cc
\layout LyX-Code-Sans

#include <iostream>
\newline 
#include <iomanip>
\newline 
#include <vector>
\newline 
#include <sqlplus.hh>
\newline 
#include <custom.hh>
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 
sql_create_5 (stock,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
// struct name, 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 1, 5,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
// I'll explain these latter
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 string, item,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
// type, id
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 int, num,
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 double, weight,
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 double, price,
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 Date, sdate)
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 
// this is calling a very complex macro which will create a custom
\newline 
// struct "stock" which has the variables:
\newline 
//
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 string item
\newline 
//
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 int num
\newline 
//
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 ...
\newline 
//
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 Date sdate
\newline 
// defined as well methods to help populate the class from a mysql row
\newline 
// among other things that I'll get too in a latter example
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 
int main () {
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 try {
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
// its in one big try block
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 Connection con (use_exceptions);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 con.connect ("mysql_cpp_data");
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 Query query = con.query ();
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 query << "select * from stock";
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 vector < stock > res;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 query.storein (res);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // this is storing the results into a vector of the custom struct
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // "stock" which was created my the macro above.
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout.setf (ios::left);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout << setw (17) << "Item"
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << setw (4) << "Num"
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << setw (7) << "Weight"
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << setw (7) << "Price"
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << "Date" << endl
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // Now we we iterate through the vector using an iterator and
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // produce output similar to that using Row
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // Notice how we call the actual variables in i and not an index
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // offset.
\protected_separator 
 This is because the macro at the begging of the file
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // set up an *actual* struct of type stock which contains the 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // variables item, num, weight, price, and data.
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout.precision(3);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 vector <stock>::iterator i;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 for (i = res.begin (); i != res.end (); i++) {
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout << setw (17) << i->item.c_str ()
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
// unfortunally the gnu string class does not respond to format
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
// modifers so I have to convert it to a conat char *.
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << setw (4) << i->num
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << setw (7) << i->weight
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << setw (7) << i->price
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << i->sdate
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 }
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 return 0;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 } catch (BadQuery er){ // handle any connection 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // or query errors that may come up
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cerr << "Error: " << er.error << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 return -1;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 
 } catch (BadConversion er) {
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // we still need to cache bad conversions incase something goes 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // wrong when the data is converted into stock
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cerr << "Error: Tried to convert 
\backslash 
"" << er.data << "
\backslash 
" to a 
\backslash 
""
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << er.type_name << "
\backslash 
"." << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 return -1;
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 }
\newline 
}
\layout Standard

As you can see.
 SSQLS are very powerful things.
\layout Subsection

Adding Data 
\layout Standard

SSQLS can also be used to add data to a table.
 The file name for this code is custom2.cc
\layout Comment

example:custom2.cc
\layout LyX-Code-Sans

#include <iostream>
\newline 
#include <vector>
\newline 
#include <sqlplus.hh>
\newline 
#include <custom.hh>
\newline 
#include "util.hh"
\newline 
// util.hh/cc contains the print_stock_table function
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 
sql_create_5(stock, 1, 5, string, item, int, num, 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 double, weight, double, price, Date, sdate)
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 
int main() {
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 try { // its in one big try block
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 Connection con(use_exceptions);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 con.connect("mysql_cpp_data");
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 Query query = con.query();
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 stock row;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // create an empty stock object
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 /*
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 row.item = "Hot Dogs";
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 row.num = 100;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 row.weight = 1.5;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 row.price = 1.75;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 row.sdate = "1998-09-25"; */
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 row.set("Hot Dogs", 100, 1.5, 1.75, "1998-09-25");
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // populate stock
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 query.insert(row);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // form the query to insert the row
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // the table name is the name of the struct by default
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout << "Query : " << query.preview() << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // show the query about to be executed
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 query.execute();
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // execute a query that does not return a result set
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 print_stock_table(query);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // now print the new table;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 } catch (BadQuery er) {
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cerr << "Error: " << er.error << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 return -1;
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 } catch (BadConversion er) { 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cerr << "Error: Tried to convert 
\backslash 
"" << er.data << "
\backslash 
" to a 
\backslash 
"" 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << er.type_name << "
\backslash 
"." << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 return -1;
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 }
\newline 
}
\layout Standard

That's all there is to it.
 Because this example modifies the data you should run 
\family typewriter 
reset-db
\family default 
 after running the example code.
\layout Subsection

Modifying Data 
\layout Standard

And it almost as easy to modify data with SSQLS.
 The file name is custom3.cc.
\layout Comment

example:custom3.cc
\layout LyX-Code-Sans

#include <iostream>
\newline 
#include <vector>
\newline 
#include <sqlplus.hh>
\newline 
#include <custom.hh>
\newline 
#include "util.hh"
\newline 
// util.hh/cc contains the print_stock_table function
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 
sql_create_5(stock, 1, 5, string, item, int, num, 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 double, weight, double, price, Date, sdate)
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 
int main() {
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 try { // its in one big try block
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 Connection con(use_exceptions);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 con.connect("mysql_cpp_data");
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 Query query = con.query();
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 query << "select * from stock where item = 
\backslash 
"Hotdogs' Buns
\backslash 
" ";
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 Result res = query.store();
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 if (res.empty()) 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 throw BadQuery("Hotdogs' Buns not found in table, run reset-db");
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // here we are testing if the query was successful, if not throw a bad
 query
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 stock row = res[0];
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // because there should only be one row in this query we don't
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // need to use a vector.
\protected_separator 
 Just store the first row directly in
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // "row".
\protected_separator 
 We can do this because one of the constructors for
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // stock takes a Row as an parameter.
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 stock row2 = row;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // Now we need to create a copy so that the replace query knows
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // what the original values are.
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 row.item = "Hotdog Buns"; // now change item
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 query.update(row2, row);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // form the query to replace the row
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // the table name is the name of the struct by default
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout << "Query : " << query.preview() << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // show the query about to be executed
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 query.execute();
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // execute a query that does not return a result set
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 print_stock_table(query);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // now print the new table;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 } catch (BadQuery er) {
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cerr << "Error: " << er.error << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 return -1;
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 } catch (BadConversion er) { 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cerr << "Error: Tried to convert 
\backslash 
"" << er.data << "
\backslash 
" to a 
\backslash 
"" 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << er.type_name << "
\backslash 
"." << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 return -1;
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 }
\newline 
}
\layout Standard

When you run the example you will notice that in the where clause only the
 
\emph on 
item 
\emph default 
field is checked for.
 This is because SSQLS also also less-than-comparable.
\layout Standard

Don't forget to run 
\family typewriter 
reset-db
\family default 
 after running the example.
\layout Subsection

Less-Than-Comparable
\layout Standard

SSQLS are can also be made less-than-comparable.
 This means that they can be sorted and stored in sets as demonstrated in
 the next example.
 The file name is custom4.cc
\layout Comment

example:custom4.cc
\layout LyX-Code-Sans

#include <iostream>
\newline 
#include <iomanip>
\newline 
#include <vector>
\newline 
#include <sqlplus.hh>
\newline 
#include <custom.hh>
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 
sql_create_5(stock, 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 1, // This number is used to make a SSQLS less-than-comparable.
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // If this number is n then if the first n elements are the 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // same the two SSQLS are the same.
\protected_separator 
 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // In this case if two two stock's "item" are the same then
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // the two stock are the same.
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 5, // this number should generally be the same as the number of
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // elements in the list unless you have a good reason not to.
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 string,item,
\protected_separator 
 int,num,
\protected_separator 
 double,weight,
\protected_separator 
 double,price,
\protected_separator 
 Date,sdate)
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 
int main() {
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 try { // its in one big try block
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 Connection con(use_exceptions);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 con.connect("mysql_cpp_data");
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 Query query = con.query();
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 query << "select * from stock";
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 set<stock> res;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 query.storein(res);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // here we are storing the elements in a set not a vector.
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout.setf (ios::left);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout << setw (17) << "Item"
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << setw (4) << "Num"
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << setw (7) << "Weight"
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << setw (7) << "Price"
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << "Date" << endl
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // Now we we iterate through the set.
\protected_separator 
 Since it is a set the list will
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // naturally be in order.
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 set<stock>::iterator i;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout.precision(3);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 for (i = res.begin (); i != res.end (); i++) {
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout << setw (17) << i->item.c_str ()
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << setw (4) << i->num
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << setw (7) << i->weight
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << setw (7) << i->price
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << i->sdate
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 }
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 i = res.find(stock("Hamburger Buns"));
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 if (i != res.end())
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout << "Hamburger Buns found.
\protected_separator 
 Currently " << i->num << " in stock.
\backslash 
n";
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 else
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cout << "Sorry no Hamburger Buns found in stock
\backslash 
n";
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // Now we are using the set's find method to find out how many
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // Hamburger Buns are in stock.
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 return 0;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 
 } catch (BadQuery er) {
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cerr << "Error: " << er.error << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 return -1;
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 } catch (BadConversion er) { 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cerr << "Error: Tried to convert 
\backslash 
"" << er.data << "
\backslash 
" to a 
\backslash 
"" 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << er.type_name << "
\backslash 
"." << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 return -1;
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 }
\newline 
}
\layout Subsection

And There's More
\layout Standard

This is only scratching the surface of what SSQLS can do for more information
 see the chapter on them (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{SSQLS}

\end_inset 

).
\layout Section

Template Queries
\layout Standard

Another powerful feature of Mysql++ is being able to set up template queries.
 The following example demonstrates how to use them.
 This code is the actual code used to set up and/or reset the sample database.
 It can be found under reset-db.cc.
 I hope to come up with some better examples soon.
\layout Comment

example:reset-db.cc
\layout LyX-Code-Sans

#include <iostream>
\newline 
#include <sqlplus.hh>
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 
int main (int argc, char *argv[]) {
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 Connection connection(use_exceptions);
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 try { // the entire main block is one big try block;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 if (argc == 1) connection.connect("");
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 else if (argc == 2) connection.connect("",argv[1]);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 else if (argc == 3) connection.connect("",argv[1],argv[2]);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 else if (argc <= 4) connection.connect("",argv[1],argv[2],argv[3]);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // create a new object and connect based on any (if any) arguments
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // passed to main();
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 try {
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 connection.select_db("mysql_cpp_data");
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 } catch (BadQuery er) {
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // if it couldn't connect to the database assume that it doesn't exist
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // and try created it.
\protected_separator 
 If that does not work exit with an error.
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 connection.create_db("mysql_cpp_data");
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 connection.select_db("mysql_cpp_data");
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 }
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 Query query = connection.query();
\protected_separator 
 // create a new query object
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 try { // ignore any errors here
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // I hope to make this simpler soon
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 query.execute("drop table stock");
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 } catch (BadQuery er) {}
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 query << "create table stock
\protected_separator 
 (item char(20) not null, num smallint,"
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 << "weight double, price double, sdate date)";
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 query.execute(RESET_QUERY);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // send the query to create the table and execute it.
\protected_separator 
 The
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // RESET_QUERY tells the query object to reset it self after
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // execution
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 query << "insert into %5:table values (%0q, %1q, %2, %3, %4q)";
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 query.parse();
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // set up the template query I will use to insert the data.
\protected_separator 
 The
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // parse method call is important as it is what lets the query
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // know that this is a template and not a literal string
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 query.def["table"] = "stock";
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // This is setting the parameter named table to stock.
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 query.execute ("Hamburger Buns", 56, 1.25, 1.1, "1998-04-26");
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 query.execute ("Hotdogs' Buns"
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 ,65, 1.1 , 1.1, "1998-04-23");
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 query.execute ("Dinner Roles"
\protected_separator 
 , 75,
\protected_separator 
 .95, .97, "1998-05-25");
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 query.execute ("White Bread"
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 , 87, 1.5, 1.75, "1998-09-04");
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // The last parameter "table" is not specified here.
\protected_separator 
 Thus
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 // the default value for "table" is used which is "stock".
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 
 } catch (BadQuery er) { // handle any errors that may come up
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 cerr << "Error: " << er.error << endl;
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 return -1;
\newline 

\protected_separator 
 }
\newline 
}
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\layout Chapter

Class Reference 
\layout Standard

This chapter documents all of the classes that are meant to be used.
 If it is not documented here 
\series bold 
don't use it
\series default 
 because it is a internal method or class meant to only be used by other
 related classes.
\layout Comment

Begin Class Ref
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{SQLQuery}

\end_inset 


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{SQLQueryParms}

\end_inset 


\layout Comment

End Class Ref
\layout Section

Manipulators 
\layout Standard

The following manipulators modify only the next item to the right of it
 in an 
\family typewriter 
<<
\family default 
 chain.
 They can be used with any ostream (which includes 
\series bold 
SQLQuery
\series default 
 and 
\series bold 
Query
\series default 
 because they are also ostreams) or 
\series bold 
SQLQueryParms
\series default 
.
 When used with 
\series bold 
SQLQueryParms
\series default 
 they will override any settings set by the Template Query for that particular
 item.
\layout Description

quote Quote and escape the next item.
 Can be used with 
\series bold 
ostream
\series default 
 or 
\series bold 
SQLQueryParms
\series default 
.
 
\layout Description

quote_only Quote but don't escape the next item.
 Can be used with 
\series bold 
ostream
\series default 
 or 
\series bold 
SQLQueryParms
\series default 
.
 
\layout Description

quote_only_double Quote, but don't escape the next item, with `` instead
 of '.
 
\layout Description

escape Escape the next item.
 
\layout Description

do_nothing Does exactly what it says nothing.
 Used as a dummy manipulator when you are required to use some manipulator.
 When used with 
\series bold 
SQLQueryParms
\series default 
 it will make sure that it does not get formatted in any way overriding
 any setting set by the template query.
 
\layout Description

ignore Only valid when used with 
\series bold 
SQLQueryParms
\series default 
.
 Like 
\series bold 
do_nothing
\series default 
 however this one will not override formatting set by the template query,
 thus it is ignored.
 
\layout Chapter

Template Queries
\layout Standard

The idea of template queries is too provide a query with replaceable parameters
 that can be changed between query calls with out having to reform the queries.
\layout Section

Setting Them Up
\layout Standard

To set up a template query simply enter the query like it is a normal query.
 For example:
\layout LyX-Code

query << "select (%2:field1, %3:field2) from stock where %1:wheref = %q0:what"
\layout Standard

And then execute the Query::parse() method.
 For example:
\layout LyX-Code

query.parse()
\layout Section

Template Format
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{template format}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

An example template looks like this 
\layout LyX-Code

select (%2:field1, %3:field2) from stock where %1:wheref = %q0:what
\layout Standard

The numbers represent the element number in 
\series bold 
SQLQueryParms
\series default 
 (see the next section).
 
\layout Standard

The format of the substation parameter is: 
\layout LyX-Code

%(modifier)##(:name)(:)
\layout Standard

Where Modifier can be any one of the following:
\layout Description

% Print an actual "%" 
\layout Description

"" "" means nothing.
 Don't quote or escape no matter what.
 
\layout Description

q This will quote and escape it using mysql_escape_string if it is a string
 or char *, or another Mysql specific types that needs to be quoted.
 
\layout Description

Q Quote but don't escape based on the same rules.
 This can save a bit of time if you know the strings will never need quoting
 
\layout Description

r Always quote and escape even if it is a number.
 
\layout Description

R Always quote but don't escape even if it is a number.
 
\layout Standard

## represents a number up to two digits 
\layout Standard

``:name'' is for an optional name which aids in filling SQLQueryParms.
 Name can contain any alpha-numeric characters or the underscore.
 If you use name it must be proceeded by non-alpha-numeric charter.
 If this is not the case add a column after the name.
 If you need to represent an actual colon after the name follow the name
 by two-columns.
 The first one will end the name and the second one won't be processed.
 
\layout Section

Setting the Parameters
\layout Standard

The parameters can either be set when the query is executed or ahead of
 time by using default parameters.
\layout Subsection

At Execution Time
\layout Standard

To specify the parameters when you want to execute a query simply use 
\series bold 
Query::store(const SQLString &parm0, [..., const SQLString &parm11])
\series default 
 (or 
\series bold 
Query::use
\series default 
 or 
\series bold 
Query::execute
\series default 
).
 Where 
\series bold 
parm0
\series default 
 corresponds to parameter number 0, etc.
 You may specify from 1 to 12 different parameters.
 For example:
\layout LyX-Code

Result res = query.store("Dinner Roles", "item", "item", "price")
\layout Standard

with the template query provided in section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{template format}

\end_inset 

 would produce:
\layout LyX-Code

select (item, price) from stock where item = "Dinner Roles"
\layout Standard

The reason for why I 
\emph on 
didn't
\emph default 
 make the template the more logical:
\layout LyX-Code

select (%0:field1, %1:field2) from stock where %2:wheref = %q3:what
\layout Standard

will become apparent shortly.
\layout Subsection

Using Defaults
\layout Standard

You can also set the parameters one at a time by means of the public data
 member 
\series bold 
def
\series default 
.
 To change the values of the 
\series bold 
def
\series default 
 simply use the subscript operator.
 You can refer to the parameters either by number or by name.
 For example:
\layout LyX-Code

query.def[0] = "Dinner Roles";
\newline 
query.def[1] = "item";
\newline 
query.def[2] = "item";
\newline 
query.def[3] = "price";
\layout Standard

and
\layout LyX-Code

query.def["what"] = "Dinner Roles";
\newline 
query.def["wheref"] = "item";
\newline 
query.def["field1"] = "item";
\newline 
query.def["field2"] = "price";
\layout Standard

would both have the same effect.
\layout Standard

Once all the parameters are set simply execute as you would have executed
 the query before you knew about template queries.
 For example:
\layout LyX-Code

Result res = query.store()
\layout Subsection

Combining the Two
\layout Standard

You can also combine the use of setting the parameters at execution time
 and setting them by use of the 
\series bold 
def
\series default 
 object by simply using the extended form of 
\series bold 
Query::store
\series default 
 (or 
\series bold 
use
\series default 
 or 
\series bold 
execute
\series default 
) without all of necessary parameters specified.
 For example:
\layout LyX-Code

query.def["field1"] = "item";
\newline 
query.def["field2"] = "price";
\newline 
Result res1 = query.store("Hamburger Buns", "item");
\newline 
Result res2 = query.store(1.25, "price");
\layout Standard

Would store the query:
\layout LyX-Code

select (item, price) from stock where item = "Hamburger Buns"
\layout Standard

for
\family typewriter 
 res1 
\family default 
and 
\layout LyX-Code

select (item, price) from stock where price = 1.25
\layout Standard

for 
\family typewriter 
res2
\family default 
.
\layout Standard

Because the extended form of 
\series bold 
Query::store
\series default 
 can only effect the beginning (by number not by location) parameters the
 more logical template query:
\layout LyX-Code

select (%0:field1, %1:field2) from stock where %2:wheref = %q3:what
\layout Standard

would 
\emph on 
not 
\emph default 
of worked in this case.
 Thus the more twisted ordering of
\layout LyX-Code

select (%2:field1, %3:field2) from stock where %1:wheref = %q0:what
\layout Standard

was needed so that we can specify 
\series bold 
wheref
\series default 
 and 
\series bold 
what
\series default 
 each time.
\layout Standard

One thing to watch out for, however, is that 
\series bold 
Query::store(const char* q)
\series default 
 is also defined for executing the query 
\family typewriter 
q
\family default 
.
 For this reason when you use the 
\series bold 
Query::store
\series default 
 (or 
\series bold 
use
\series default 
, or 
\series bold 
execute
\series default 
) with only one item and that item is a 
\series bold 
const char*
\series default 
 you need to explicitly convert it into a SQLString.
 For example:
\layout LyX-Code

Result res = query.store(SQLString("Hamburger Buns")).
\layout Subsection

Error Handling
\layout Standard

If for some reason you did not specify all the parameters when executing
 the query 
\emph on 
and
\emph default 
 the remaining parameters do not have there values set via 
\family typewriter 
def
\family default 
 the query object will throw a 
\series bold 
SQLQueryNEParms
\series default 
 object.
 In which case you you can find out what happened by checking the value
 of 
\series bold 
SQLQueryNEParms::string
\series default 
.
 
\layout Standard

For example:
\layout LyX-Code

query.def["field1"] = "item";
\newline 
query.def["field2"] = "price";
\newline 
Result res = query.store(1.25);
\layout Standard

would throw 
\series bold 
SQLQueryNEParms
\series default 
 because the 
\family typewriter 
wheref
\family default 
 is not specified.
\layout Standard

In theory this exception should never be thrown.
 If the exception is thrown it probably a logic error on you part.
 (Like in the above example)
\layout Subsection

More Advanced Stuff
\layout Standard

To be written.
 However, for now see the class 
\series bold 
SQLQuery
\series default 
 (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{SQLQuery}

\end_inset 

) and 
\series bold 
SQLQueryParms
\series default 
 (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{SQLQueryParms}

\end_inset 

) for more information.
\layout Chapter

Specialized SQL Structures
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{SSQLS}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

The Specialized SQL Structures (SSQLS) allows you create structures to hold
 data for mysql queries with extra functionality to make your life easier.
 These structures are in no way related to any Standard Template Library
 (STL) type of containers.
 These structures are exactly that 
\series bold 
structs
\series default 
.
  Each member item is stored  with a unique name within the structure.
  You can in no way use STL algorithms are anything else STL to work with
 the individual structures.
 However you CAN use these structures as the 
\series bold 
value_type
\series default 
 for STL containers.
 (They would be pretty useless if you couldn't.) 
\layout Section

sql_create_basic 
\layout Standard

The following command will create a basic mysql query for use with the 
 sample database.
 
\layout LyX-Code

sql_create_basic_5(stock,
\protected_separator 
0,
\protected_separator 
0,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
string,
\protected_separator 
item,
\protected_separator 
//
\protected_separator 
type,
\protected_separator 
id,
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
int,
\protected_separator 
num,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
double,
\protected_separator 
weight,
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
double,
\protected_separator 
price,
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
MysqlDate,
\protected_separator 
date)
\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

This will set up the following structure: 
\layout LyX-Code

struct
\protected_separator 
stock
\protected_separator 
{
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
stock
\protected_separator 
()
\protected_separator 
{}
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
stock
\protected_separator 
(const MysqlRow
\protected_separator 
&row);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
set (const MysqlRow &row);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
string
\protected_separator 
item;
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
int
\protected_separator 
num;
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
double
\protected_separator 
weight;
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
double
\protected_separator 
price;
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
MysqlDate
\protected_separator 
date;
\protected_separator 

\newline 
};
\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

As you can see this is nothing fancy.
  The main advantage of this simple structure is the 
\series bold 
stock (MysqlRow &row)
\series default 
 constructor which allows you to easily populate a vector of stocks like
 so: 
\layout LyX-Code

vector<stock>
\protected_separator 
result;
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 
query.storein(result);
\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

That's all there is two it.
 The requirements are that the query returns elements in the same order
 as you specified them in the custom structure.
 
\layout Standard

The general format is: 
\layout LyX-Code

sql_create_basic_#(NAME,
\protected_separator 
0,
\protected_separator 
0,
\protected_separator 
TYPE1,
\protected_separator 
ITEM1,
\protected_separator 
...
\protected_separator 
TYPE#,
\protected_separator 
ITEM#)
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Where # is the number of valuables in the vector, NAME is the name of the
 structure you wish to create, and TYPE1 is the type name for first item
 and ITEM1 is the valuables name for the first item etc..
 
\layout Section

sql_create_basic with compare 
\layout Standard

You can also make the structure comparable by changing the first 0 in the
 previous example to a non zero number.
  This number, lets call it n, will tell c++ that if the first n number
 or the same then the two structures are the same.
 
\layout Standard

For example: 
\layout LyX-Code

sql_create_basic_5(stock,
\protected_separator 
1,
\protected_separator 
0,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
string,
\protected_separator 
item,
\protected_separator 
//
\protected_separator 
type,
\protected_separator 
id,
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
int,
\protected_separator 
num,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
double,
\protected_separator 
weight,
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
double,
\protected_separator 
price,
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
MysqlDate,
\protected_separator 
date)
\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

will create a structure where only the item valuable is checked to see if
 two different stocks are the same.
  It also allows you to compare one structure to another based on the value
 of item.
 (If n is greater than one it will compare the structures in a Lexicographic
 order.
  For example if it was 2 it would first compare 
\family typewriter 
item
\family default 
 and if item was the same it would  then compare 
\family typewriter 
num
\family default 
.
  If num was the same it would declare the two structures the same.) 
\layout Standard

In addition what the previous example defines it also defines the following:
 
\layout LyX-Code

struct
\protected_separator 
stock
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
...
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
stock
\protected_separator 
(const
\protected_separator 
string
\protected_separator 
&p1);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
set (const string &p1);
\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
bool
\protected_separator 
operator
\protected_separator 
==
\protected_separator 
(const
\protected_separator 
stock
\protected_separator 
&other)
\protected_separator 
const;
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
bool
\protected_separator 
operator
\protected_separator 
!=
\protected_separator 
(const
\protected_separator 
stock
\protected_separator 
&other)
\protected_separator 
const;
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
bool
\protected_separator 
operator
\protected_separator 
>
\protected_separator 
(const
\protected_separator 
stock
\protected_separator 
&other)
\protected_separator 
const;
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
bool
\protected_separator 
operator
\protected_separator 
<
\protected_separator 
(const
\protected_separator 
stock
\protected_separator 
&other)
\protected_separator 
const;
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
bool
\protected_separator 
operator
\protected_separator 
>=
\protected_separator 
(const
\protected_separator 
stock
\protected_separator 
&other)
\protected_separator 
const;
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
bool
\protected_separator 
operator
\protected_separator 
<=
\protected_separator 
(const
\protected_separator 
stock
\protected_separator 
&other)
\protected_separator 
const;
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
int
\protected_separator 
cmp
\protected_separator 
(const
\protected_separator 
stock
\protected_separator 
&other)
\protected_separator 
const;
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
int
\protected_separator 
compare
\protected_separator 
(const
\protected_separator 
stock
\protected_separator 
&other)
\protected_separator 
const;
\protected_separator 

\newline 
}
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 
int
\protected_separator 
compare
\protected_separator 
(const
\protected_separator 
stock
\protected_separator 
&x,
\protected_separator 
const
\protected_separator 
stock
\protected_separator 
&y);
\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

int compare (const stock &x, const stock &y) compares x to y and return
 <0 if  x < y, 0 if x = y, and >0 if x > y.
  stock::cmp and stock::compare are the same thing as compare(*this, other).
 
\layout Standard

stock::stock is a constructor that will set item to p1 and leave the other
 variables undefined.
  This is useful for creating temporary objects to use for comparisons like
 x <= stock("Hotdog").
   
\layout Standard

Because 
\series bold 
stock
\series default 
 is now less-then-comparable you can store the query results in a set: 
\layout LyX-Code

set<stock>
\protected_separator 
result;
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 
query.storein(result);
\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

And you can now use it like any other set, for example: 
\layout LyX-Code

cout
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
result.lower_bound(stock("Hamburger"))->item
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
endl;
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

will return the first item that begins with Hamburger.
 
\layout Standard

You can also now use it will any STL algorithm that require the values to
 be less-then-comparable.
 
\layout Standard

The general format so far is: 
\layout LyX-Code

sql_create_base_#(NAME,
\protected_separator 
CMP,
\protected_separator 
0,
\protected_separator 
TYPE1,
\protected_separator 
ITEM1,
\protected_separator 
...
\protected_separator 
TYPE#,
\protected_separator 
ITEM#)
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

where CMP is that the number that tells c++ that if the first cmp variables
 are the same then the two structures are the same.
 
\layout Section

sql_create_basic with Additional Constructor 
\layout Standard

The last zero in the last example if for creating another constructor.
 Let this zero be m then it will create a constructor which will populate
 the first n variables.
  For example: 
\layout LyX-Code

sql_create_basic_5(stock,
\protected_separator 
1,
\protected_separator 
5,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
string,
\protected_separator 
item,
\protected_separator 
//
\protected_separator 
type,
\protected_separator 
id,
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
int,
\protected_separator 
num,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
double,
\protected_separator 
weight,
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
double,
\protected_separator 
price,
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
MysqlDate,
\protected_separator 
date)
\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

will also define: 
\layout LyX-Code

struct
\protected_separator 
stock
\protected_separator 
{
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
...
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
stock(const
\protected_separator 
string&,
\protected_separator 
const
\protected_separator 
int&,
\protected_separator 
const
\protected_separator 
double&,
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
const
\protected_separator 
double&,
\protected_separator 
const
\protected_separator 
MysqlDate&);
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
set(const
\protected_separator 
string&,
\protected_separator 
const
\protected_separator 
int&,
\protected_separator 
const
\protected_separator 
double&,
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
const
\protected_separator 
double&,
\protected_separator 
const
\protected_separator 
MysqlDate&);
\protected_separator 

\newline 
}
\protected_separator 

\layout Section

sql_create_basic General Format 
\layout Standard

Thus the general format for sql_create_basic is 
\layout LyX-Code

sql_create_basic_#(NAME,
\protected_separator 
CMP,
\protected_separator 
CNST,
\protected_separator 
TYPE1,
\protected_separator 
ITEM1,
\protected_separator 
...,
\protected_separator 
TYPE#,
\protected_separator 
ITEM#)
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Where: 
\layout Itemize

# is the number of valuables in the vector 
\layout Itemize

NAME is the name of the structure you wish to create 
\layout Itemize

CMP is the number that tells c++, if not set to 0, that if the first cmp
 variables are the same then the two structures are the same.
 
\layout Itemize

CNST is the number, if not set to 0, that will create a constructor which
 will populate the first n variables.
 
\layout Itemize

TYPE1 is the type name for first item and ITEM1 is the valuables name for
 the first item etc..
 
\layout Section

sql_create_basic_c_order 
\layout Standard

You can also specify an alternate order for when mysql populates the  structure.
 For example: 
\layout LyX-Code

sql_create_basic_c_order_5(stock,
\protected_separator 
2,
\protected_separator 
5,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 
\protected_separator 
 
\protected_separator 
 
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
MysqlDate,
\protected_separator 
date,
\protected_separator 
5,
\protected_separator 
//
\protected_separator 
type,
\protected_separator 
id,
\protected_separator 
order
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 
\protected_separator 
 
\protected_separator 
 
\protected_separator 
double,
\protected_separator 
price,
\protected_separator 
4,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 
\protected_separator 
 
\protected_separator 
 
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
string,
\protected_separator 
item,
\protected_separator 
1,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 
\protected_separator 
 
\protected_separator 
 
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
int,
\protected_separator 
num,
\protected_separator 
2,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 
\protected_separator 
 
\protected_separator 
 
\protected_separator 
double,
\protected_separator 
weight,
\protected_separator 
3)
\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

This will create a similar structure as in the previous example except that
 that the order of the data items will be different and c++ will use the
 first two items to compare with (date, price).
  However because a custom order is specified you can use the same query
 to populate the set.
 It will fill 
\family typewriter 
date
\family default 
 with the first 5th item of the query result set, 
\family typewriter 
price
\family default 
 with the 4th, etc...
 
\layout Section

sql_create_basic_c_order General Format 
\layout Standard

Thus the general format for sql_create_basic is 
\layout LyX-Code

sql_create_basic_c_order_#
\protected_separator 
(NAME,
\protected_separator 
CMP,
\protected_separator 
CNST,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
TYPE1,
\protected_separator 
ITEM1,
\protected_separator 
ORDER1,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
...
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
TYPE#,
\protected_separator 
ITEM#,
\protected_separator 
ORDER#)
\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Where: 
\layout Itemize

# is the number of valuables in the vector 
\layout Itemize

NAME is the name of the structure you wish to create 
\layout Itemize

CMP is the number that tells c++, if not set to 0, that if the first cmp
 variables are the same then the two structures are the same.
 
\layout Itemize

CNST is the number, if not set to 0, that will create a constructor which
 will populate the first n variables.
 
\layout Itemize

TYPE1 is the type name for first item, ITEM1 is the valuable name for the
 first item, ORDER1 is the order number for the first item ...etc...
 
\layout Section

sql_create 
\layout Standard

In addition to the basic structures you can set up enhanced structures that
  also have methods defined to aid in the creation of queries and in the
 insertion of data in tables.
 
\layout Standard

For example: 
\layout LyX-Code

sql_create_5(stock,
\protected_separator 
1,
\protected_separator 
5,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
string,
\protected_separator 
item,
\protected_separator 
//
\protected_separator 
type,
\protected_separator 
id,
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
int,
\protected_separator 
num,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
double,
\protected_separator 
weight,
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
double,
\protected_separator 
price,
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
MysqlDate,
\protected_separator 
date)
\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

which will, in addition to that which is defined in sql_create_basic with
 Additional Constructor, define the equivalent to: 
\layout LyX-Code

struct
\protected_separator 
stock
\protected_separator 
{
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
...
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
static
\protected_separator 
char
\protected_separator 
*names[];
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
static
\protected_separator 
char
\protected_separator 
*table;
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
template
\protected_separator 
<class
\protected_separator 
Manip>
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
stock_value_list<Manip>
\protected_separator 
value_list(cchar
\protected_separator 
*d
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
",",
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
//
\protected_separator 
basic
\protected_separator 
form
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
Manip
\protected_separator 
m
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
mysql_quote)
\protected_separator 
const;
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
template
\protected_separator 
<class
\protected_separator 
Manip>
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
stock_field_list<Manip>
\protected_separator 
field_list(cchar
\protected_separator 
*d
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
",",
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
Manip
\protected_separator 
m
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
mysql_do_nothing)
\protected_separator 
const;
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
template
\protected_separator 
<class
\protected_separator 
Manip>
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
stock_equal_list<Manip>
\protected_separator 
equal_list(cchar
\protected_separator 
*d
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
",",
\layout LyX-Code


\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
cchar *e = " = ",
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
Manip
\protected_separator 
m
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
mysql_quote,
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
)
\protected_separator 
const;
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
template
\protected_separator 
<class
\protected_separator 
Manip>
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
//
\protected_separator 
bool
\protected_separator 
form
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
stock_cus_value_list<Manip>
\protected_separator 
value_list([cchar
\protected_separator 
*d,
\protected_separator 
[Manip
\protected_separator 
m,]
\protected_separator 
]
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
bool
\protected_separator 
i1,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
bool
\protected_separator 
i2
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
false,
\protected_separator 
...
\protected_separator 
,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
bool
\protected_separator 
i5
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
false)
\protected_separator 
const;
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
template
\protected_separator 
<class
\protected_separator 
Manip>
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
//
\protected_separator 
list
\protected_separator 
form
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
stock_cus_value_list<Manip>
\protected_separator 
value_list([cchar
\protected_separator 
*d,
\protected_separator 
[Manip
\protected_separator 
m,]
\protected_separator 
]
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
stock_enum
\protected_separator 
i1,
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
stock_enum
\protected_separator 
i2
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
stock_NULL,
\protected_separator 
...,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
stock_enum
\protected_separator 
i5
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
stock_NULL)
\protected_separator 
const;
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
template
\protected_separator 
<class
\protected_separator 
Manip>
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
//
\protected_separator 
vector
\protected_separator 
form
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
stock_cus_value_list<Manip>
\protected_separator 
value_list([cchar
\protected_separator 
*d,
\protected_separator 
[Manip
\protected_separator 
m,]
\protected_separator 
]
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
vector<bool>
\protected_separator 
*i)
\protected_separator 
const;
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
...(The
\protected_separator 
logical
\protected_separator 
equivalent
\protected_separator 
for
\protected_separator 
field_list
\protected_separator 
and
\protected_separator 
equal_list)...
\protected_separator 

\newline 
};
\protected_separator 

\layout Standard


\series bold 
value_list()
\series default 
 returns a special class that when used with the << operator with an ostream
 on the left will return a comma separated list with values properly quoted
 and escaped when needed.
 
\layout Standard


\series bold 
field_list()
\series default 
 return a special class than does the same thing but returns  a list of
 fields that the structure holds which in this case is the same thing as
 the valuable names.
  The field names are not escaped or quoted 
\layout Standard


\series bold 
equal_list()
\series default 
 returns a comma separated list with the format  
\series bold 
field name = value
\series default 
.
 The field name is not quoted or escaped and value is escaped or quoted
 as needed.
 
\layout Standard

For example: 
\layout LyX-Code

stock
\protected_separator 
s("Dinner
\protected_separator 
Roles",75,0.95,0.97,"1998-05-25");
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 
cout
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
"Value
\protected_separator 
List:
\protected_separator 
"
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
s.comma_list()
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
endl;
\protected_separator 

\newline 
cout
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
"Field
\protected_separator 
List:
\protected_separator 
"
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
s.field_list()
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
endl;
\protected_separator 

\newline 
cout
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
"Equal
\protected_separator 
List:
\protected_separator 
"
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
s.equal_list()
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
endl;
\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Would return something like (with a little extra hand formating): 
\layout LyX-Code

Value
\protected_separator 
List:
\protected_separator 
'Dinner
\protected_separator 
Roles',75,0.95,0.97,'1998-05-25'
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 
Field
\protected_separator 
List:
\protected_separator 
item,num,weight,price,date
\protected_separator 

\newline 
Equal
\protected_separator 
List:
\protected_separator 
item
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
'Dinner
\protected_separator 
Roles',num
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
75,weight
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
0.95,
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
price
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
0.97,date
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
'1998-05-25'
\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

A combination of the field and value list can be used for insert or replace
 queries.
  For example: 
\layout LyX-Code

query
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
"insert
\protected_separator 
into
\protected_separator 
stock
\protected_separator 
("
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
s.field_list()
\protected_separator 
")
\protected_separator 
values
\protected_separator 
"
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
s.value_list();
\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

will insert 
\family typewriter 
s
\family default 
 into table stock.
 
\layout Standard

You can also use SQLQuery::insert or SQLQuery::replace (and thus Query::insert
 or Query::replace) as a short cut to accomplish the same task like so:
 
\layout LyX-Code

query.insert(s);
\layout Standard

It will use s.table for the table name which defaults to the name of the
 structure.
 
\layout Standard

You can also specify an different delimiter "d".
  If none is specified it defaults to ",".
  With this you can use the delimiter " AND " for equal_list to aid in update
 and select queries.
  For example: 
\layout LyX-Code

stock
\protected_separator 
s2
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
s;
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 
s2.item
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
"6
\protected_separator 
Dinner
\protected_separator 
Roles";
\protected_separator 

\newline 
query
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
"UPDATE
\protected_separator 
TABLE
\protected_separator 
stock
\protected_separator 
SET
\protected_separator 
"
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
s2.equal_list()
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
"
\protected_separator 
WHERE
\protected_separator 
"
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
s.equal_list("
\protected_separator 
AND
\protected_separator 
");
\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

would produce the query: 
\layout LyX-Code

UPDATE
\protected_separator 
TABLE
\protected_separator 
stock
\protected_separator 
SET
\protected_separator 
item
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
'6
\protected_separator 
Dinner
\protected_separator 
Roles',num
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
75,weight
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
0.95,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
price
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
0.97,date
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
'1998-05-25'
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
WHERE
\protected_separator 
item
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
'Dinner
\protected_separator 
Roles'
\protected_separator 
AND
\protected_separator 
num
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
75
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
AND
\protected_separator 
weight
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
0.95
\protected_separator 
AND
\protected_separator 
price
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
0.97
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
AND
\protected_separator 
date
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
'1998-05-25'
\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

which will change the entree in the table so that item is now "6 Dinner
 Roles" instead of "Dinner Roles" 
\layout Standard

You can use 
\series bold 
SQLQuery::update
\series default 
 (and thus 
\series bold 
Query::update
\series default 
) as a short cut to accomplishing the same task like so: 
\layout LyX-Code

stock
\protected_separator 
s2
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
s;
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 
s2.item
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
"6
\protected_separator 
Dinner
\protected_separator 
Roles";
\protected_separator 

\newline 
query.update(s,s2);
\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Like 
\series bold 
SQLQuery::insert
\series default 
, it will use s.table for the table name which defaults to the name of the
 structure.
 
\layout Standard

You can also specify an different manipulator which will effect the way
 c++ quotes or escapes the values.
  This may be any valid stream manipulator that only effects the item to
 the right of manipulator.
 
\series bold 
value_list
\series default 
 and 
\series bold 
equal_list
\series default 
 defaults to 
\series bold 
escape
\series default 
 and 
\series bold 
field_list
\series default 
 defaults to 
\series bold 
do_nothing
\series default 
.
  For 
\series bold 
equal_list
\series default 
 the manipulator only effects the 
\series bold 
value
\series default 
 part and not the 
\series bold 
field name
\series default 
 part.
 
\layout Standard

This can be useful creating exporting to a file where you don't want quotes
 around strings for example.
 
\layout LyX-Code

table_out
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
q.value_list("
\backslash 

\protected_separator 
t",
\protected_separator 
mysql_escape)
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
endl;
\layout Standard

will append data to the file handle table_out.
 
\layout Standard

The three non-basic forms allow you to specify which items are returned.
 For example: 
\layout LyX-Code

cout
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
q.value_list(false,false,true,true,false)
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
endl;
\protected_separator 
//bool
\protected_separator 
form
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 
cout
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
q.value_list(stock_weight,
\protected_separator 
stock_price)
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
endl;
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
//list
\protected_separator 
form
\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

will both return: 
\layout LyX-Code

0.95,0.97
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

The 
\shape italic 
bool form
\shape default 
 excepts boolean arguments where each true/false represents an wether to
 show a valuable.
  False means not to show it while true means  to show it.
 If you leave of some they are assumed to be false.
  For example: 
\layout LyX-Code

cout
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
q.value_list(false,false,true,true)
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
endl;
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

is the same as the above example.
   
\layout Standard

The 
\shape italic 
list form
\shape default 
 allows you to specify which items to show.
  An enum values are created for each valuable with the name of struct plus
 the underscore character prefixed before it.
  For example:  item becomes stock_item.
 
\layout Standard

These forms can be useful is select queries.
  For example: 
\layout LyX-Code

query
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
"SELECT
\protected_separator 
*
\protected_separator 
FROM
\protected_separator 
stock
\protected_separator 
WHERE
\protected_separator 
"
\protected_separator 

\layout LyX-Code


\protected_separator 
 
\protected_separator 
 
\protected_separator 
 <<
\protected_separator 
q.equal_list("
\protected_separator 
AND
\protected_separator 
",stock_weight,stock_price);
\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

would produce the query: 
\layout LyX-Code

SELECT
\protected_separator 
*
\protected_separator 
FROM
\protected_separator 
stock
\protected_separator 
WHERE
\protected_separator 
weight=0.95
\protected_separator 
AND
\protected_separator 
price=0.97
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

which will select all rows from stock which have the same weight and price
 as 
\shape italic 
q
\shape default 
.
 
\layout Standard

The 
\shape italic 
vector form
\shape default 
 (not shown above) allows you to pass a boolean vector which is a time saver
 if you use the some pattern more than once as it avoids having to create
 the vector from the arguments each time.
  If 
\family typewriter 
a
\family default 
 is a boolean vector then 
\family typewriter 
a[0]
\family default 
 will hold wether to include the first variable 
\family typewriter 
a[1]
\family default 
 the second etc...
  For example: 
\layout LyX-Code

vector<bool>
\protected_separator 
a;
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 
a[0]
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
false;
\protected_separator 
a[1]
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
false;
\protected_separator 
a[2]
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
true;
\protected_separator 
a[3]
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
true;
\protected_separator 
a[4]
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
false;
\protected_separator 

\newline 
query
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
"SELECT
\protected_separator 
*
\protected_separator 
FROM
\protected_separator 
stock
\protected_separator 
WHERE
\protected_separator 
"
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
q.equal_list("
\protected_separator 
AND
\protected_separator 
",
\protected_separator 
a);
\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

will produce the same query as in the above example.
 
\layout Section

sql_create_c_names 
\layout Standard

You can also specify alternate field names like so: 
\layout LyX-Code

sql_create_c_names_5(stock,
\protected_separator 
1,
\protected_separator 
5,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
string,
\protected_separator 
item,
\protected_separator 
"item",
\protected_separator 
//
\protected_separator 
type,
\protected_separator 
id,
\protected_separator 
column
\protected_separator 
name
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
int,
\protected_separator 
num,
\protected_separator 
"quantity",
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
double,
\protected_separator 
weight,
\protected_separator 
"weight",
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
double,
\protected_separator 
price,
\protected_separator 
"price"
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
MysqlDate,
\protected_separator 
date,
\protected_separator 
"shipment")
\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

When 
\series bold 
field_list
\series default 
 or 
\series bold 
equal_list
\series default 
 is used it will use the given  field names rather than the variable names
 for example: 
\layout LyX-Code

stock
\protected_separator 
s("Dinner
\protected_separator 
Roles",75,0.95,0.97,"1998-05-25");
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 
cout
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
"Field
\protected_separator 
List:
\protected_separator 
"
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
s.field_list()
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
endl;
\protected_separator 

\newline 
cout
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
"Equal
\protected_separator 
List:
\protected_separator 
"
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
s.equal_list()
\protected_separator 
<<
\protected_separator 
endl;
\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Would return something like (with a little extra hand formating): 
\layout LyX-Code

Field
\protected_separator 
List:
\protected_separator 
item,quantity,weight,price,shipment
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 
Equal
\protected_separator 
List:
\protected_separator 
item
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
'Dinner
\protected_separator 
Roles',quantity
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
75,weight
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
0.95,
\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
price
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
0.97,shipment
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
'1998-05-25'
\protected_separator 

\layout Section

sql_create_c_names General Format 
\layout Standard

The general format is: 
\layout LyX-Code

sql_create_c_names_#
\protected_separator 
(NAME,
\protected_separator 
CMP,
\protected_separator 
CNST,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
TYPE1,
\protected_separator 
ITEM1,
\protected_separator 
NAME1,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
...
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
TYPE#,
\protected_separator 
ITEM#,
\protected_separator 
NAME#)
\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

where NAME1 is the name of the first field, etc.
  Everything else is the same as it is the same as in sql_create_basic_c_order
 General Format.
 
\layout Section

sql_create_c_order 
\layout Standard

As in sql_create_basic_c_order you may specify a custom order.
 The general from is: 
\layout LyX-Code

sql_create_c_order_#
\protected_separator 
(NAME,
\protected_separator 
CMP,
\protected_separator 
CNST,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
TYPE1,
\protected_separator 
ITEM1,
\protected_separator 
ORDER1,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
...
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
TYPE#,
\protected_separator 
ITEM#,
\protected_separator 
ORDER#)
\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

where everything is the same as in  sql_create_basic_c_order General Format.
 
\layout Section

sql_create_complete 
\layout Standard

You can also specify both a custom order and custom field names.
   The general from is.
 
\layout LyX-Code

sql_create_complete_#
\protected_separator 
(NAME,
\protected_separator 
CMP,
\protected_separator 
CNST,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
TYPE1,
\protected_separator 
ITEM1,
\protected_separator 
NAME1,
\protected_separator 
ORDER1,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
...
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\newline 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
TYPE#,
\protected_separator 
ITEM#,
\protected_separator 
NAME#,
\protected_separator 
ORDER#)
\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Where everything is the same as in  sql_create_c_order General Format and
 sql_create_c_names General Format.
 
\layout Section

Changing the table name 
\layout Standard

In order to avoid having even more forms I decided not to allow you to specify
 a different table name in the actual macro call.
 The table name is used by 
\series bold 
SQLQuery::insert
\series default 
, 
\series bold 
replace
\series default 
, and 
\series bold 
update
\series default 
.
  However you can easeally change the default table name, which is the same
 as the struct name, by changing the reference 
\series bold 
NAME::table()
\series default 
 returns to a different 
\series bold 
const char *
\series default 
  For example: 
\layout LyX-Code

stock::table()
\protected_separator 
=
\protected_separator 
"in_stock"
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Will change the table name to "in_stock" in the examples used through out
 this guide.
 
\layout Section

Seeing the actual code 
\layout Standard

To see the actual code that the macro inserts use sql++pretty.
  For example: 
\layout LyX-Code

sql++pretty
\protected_separator 
<
\protected_separator 
test.cc
\protected_separator 
|
\protected_separator 
less
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\layout Section

Adding functionality 
\layout Standard

The best way to add functionality is through inheritance.
  Even though you could paste the code outputted from pretty.pl and modify
 it this is not recommended because it won't reflect future enhancements.
 
\layout Section

Other notes 
\layout Standard

Macros are defined for structures with up to 25 items.
  If you need more  modify the underlying perl script custom.pl.
 This perl script is used to generate the header file.
 It in no way tries to parse C++ code.
 
\layout Standard

The header file that the script custom.pl creates is close to a meg.
 However, please note that the 1 meg header file (custom-macros.hh) is NOTHING
 but macros.
  Therefor the compiler has to do very little work when reading is.
 
\layout Standard

Also, everything included by the macro call is done in such a way that you
 can safely include the macro call in a header file and not have to worry
 about duplicate function calls or anything of the like.
 
\layout Chapter

Long Names
\layout Standard

By default the Mysql++ API uses both short names with out the
\series bold 
 Mysql
\series default 
 or 
\series bold 
mysql_ 
\series default 
prefix and long names with the 
\series bold 
Mysql
\series default 
 or 
\series bold 
mysql_ 
\series default 
prefix.
 If this causes name problems define the macro 
\series bold 
MYSQL_NO_SHORT_NAMES
\series default 
 before including 
\series bold 
mysql++
\series default 
.
 This will force the use of long names only.
 The short and long names are mapped as follows:
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center \LyXTable
multicol5
33 2 0 0 -1 -1 -1 -1
1 1 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
2 1 0 "" ""
2 1 1 "" ""
1 8 1 1 0 0 0 "" ""
1 8 1 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 2 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 2 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""


\series bold 
Short Name
\newline 
Long Name
\series default 

\newline 
BadQuery
\newline 
MysqlBadQuery
\newline 
Connection
\newline 
MysqlConnection
\newline 
ResNSel
\newline 
ResNSel
\newline 
ResUse 
\newline 
ResUse MysqlResUse
\newline 
Result 
\newline 
MysqlRes
\newline 
Field
\newline 
MysqlField
\newline 
Fields
\newline 
MysqlFields
\newline 
ResIter 
\newline 
MysqlResIter
\newline 
ResultIter 
\newline 
MysqlResIter
\newline 
Row 
\newline 
MysqlRow
\newline 
MutableRow 
\newline 
MysqlMutableRow
\newline 
FieldNames 
\newline 
MysqlFieldNames
\newline 
Query
\newline 
MysqlQuery
\newline 
BadConversion 
\newline 
MysqlBadConversion 
\newline 
ColData 
\newline 
MysqlColData 
\newline 
MutableColData
\newline 
MysqlMutableColData
\newline 
quote
\newline 
mysql_quote
\newline 
quote_only
\newline 
mysql_quote_only
\newline 
quote_double_only
\newline 
mysql_quote_double_only
\newline 
escape
\newline 
mysql_escape
\newline 
do_nothing 
\newline 
mysql_do_nothing 
\newline 
ignore
\newline 
mysql_ignore
\newline 
Date
\newline 
MysqDate
\newline 
Time
\newline 
MysqlTime
\newline 
DateTime
\newline 
MysqlDateTime
\newline 
Set
\newline 
MysqlSet
\newline 
Null
\newline 
MysqlNull
\newline 
null_type 
\newline 
mysql_null_type
\newline 
null 
\newline 
mysql_null
\newline 
NullisNull
\newline 
MysqlNullisNull
\newline 
NullisZero
\newline 
MysqlNullisZero
\newline 
NullisBlank
\newline 
MysqlNullisBlank
\layout Part*

Appendices
\layout LaTeX


\backslash 
appendix
\layout Chapter

Changelog
\layout Section*

1.3 (Nov 10 1999) Sinisa Milivojevic <sinisa@cytanet.com.cy>
\layout Itemize

Fixed several erronous definitions
\layout Itemize

Further changed source to be 2.95.2 compatible
\layout Itemize

Expunged unused statements, especially dubious ones, like use of pointer_tracker
\layout Itemize

Corrected bug in example file fieldinf1
\layout Itemize

Finally fixed mysql_init in Connection constructor, which provided much
 greater stability !
\layout Itemize

Added read and get options, so that clients, like mysqlgui can use it
\layout Itemize

Changed Changelog and README
\layout Itemize

Many other bug fixes.
\layout Section*

1.2 (Oct 15 1999) Sinisa Milivojevic <sinisa@cytanet.com.cy>
\layout Itemize

First offical release.
 Version 1.0 and 1.1 were releases by Sinisa before I (Kevin Atkinson) made
 him the offical maintainer,
\layout Itemize

Many manual fixes.
\layout Itemize

Changed README and Changelog
\layout Itemize

Changed source to be compilable by gcc 2.95.xx, tribute to Kevin Atkinson
 <kevinatk@home.com>
\layout Itemize

Added methods in Connection class which are necessary for fullfilling administra
tive functions with MySQL
\layout Itemize

Added many bug fixes in code pertaining to missing class initializers ,
 as notified by Michael Rendell <michael@cs.mun.ca>
\layout Itemize

Sinisa Milivojevic <sinisa@cytanet.com.cy> is now the offical maintainer.
\layout Section*

1.1 (Aug 2 1999) Sinisa Milivojevic <sinisa@cytanet.com.cy>
\layout Itemize

Added several bug fixes
\layout Itemize

Fixed memory leak problems and variables overlapping problems.
\layout Itemize

Added automake and autoconf support by loic@ceic.com
\layout Itemize

Added Makefile for manual
\layout Itemize

Added support for cygwin
\layout Itemize

Added example sinisa_ex (let modesty prevail) which used to crash a lot
 when memory allocation, memory leak and overlap problems were present.
 Smooth running of this example proves that all those bugs are fixed 
\layout Itemize

Corrected bugs in sql_query.cc regarding delete versus delete[] and string
 length in manip.cc
\layout Itemize

Changed manual
\layout Itemize

Changed README
\layout Itemize

Many other smaller things
\layout Section*

1.0 (June 9 1999) Michael Widenius <monty@monty.pp.sci.fi>
\layout Itemize

Added patches from Orion Poplawski <orion@bvt.com> to support the UnixWare
 7.0 compiler
\layout Section*

.64.1.1a (Sep 27 1998)
\layout Itemize

Fixed several bugs that caused my library to fail to compile with egcs 1.1.
 Hopefully it will still compile with egcs 1.0 however I have not been able
 to test it with egcs 1.0.
\layout Itemize

Removed some problem causing debug output in sql++pretty.
\layout Section*

.64.1a (Aug 1 1998)
\layout Itemize

Added an (almost) full guide to using Template Queries.
\layout Itemize

Fixed it so the SQLQuery will throw an exception when all the template parameter
s are not provided.
\layout Itemize

Proofread and speedchecked the manual (it really needed it).
\layout Itemize

Other minor document fixes.
\layout Section*

.64.0.1a (July 31 1998) 
\layout Itemize

Reworked the Class Reference section a bit.
\layout Itemize

Minor document fixes
\layout Itemize

Added more examples for SSQLS.
\layout Itemize

Changed the syntax of equal_list for SSQLS from equal_list (cchar *, Manip,
 cchar *) to (cchar *, cchar *, Manip).
\layout Itemize

Added set methods to SSQLS.
 These new methods do the same thing as there corresponding constructors.
\layout Itemize

Added methods for creating a mysql_type_info from a C++ type_info.
\layout Section*

.64.a (July 24 1998)
\layout Itemize

Changed the names of all the classes so they no longer have to have Mysql
 in the begging of it.
 However if this creates a problem you can define a macro to 
\emph on 
only
\emph default 
 use the old names instead.
 
\layout Itemize

The Specialized SQL Structures (formally known as Custom Mysql Structures)
 changed from mysql_ to sql_.
\layout Itemize

Added the option of using exceptions thoughout the API.
\layout Itemize

ColData (formally known as MysqlStrings) will now throw an exception if
 there is a problem in the conversion.
\layout Itemize

Added a null adapter.
\layout Itemize

Added Mutable Result Sets
\layout Itemize

Added a very basic runtime type identification for SQL types
\layout Itemize

Changed the document format from POD to LyX .
\layout Itemize

Am now using a modified version of Perceps to extract the class information
 directly from the code to make my life easier.
\layout Itemize

Added an option of defining a macro to avoid using the automatic conversion
 with binary operators.
\layout Itemize

Other small fixed I probully forgot to mentune.
\layout Section*

.63.1.a
\layout Itemize

Added Custom Mysql Structures.
\layout Itemize

Fixed the Copy constructor of class Mysql
\layout Itemize

Started adding code so that class Mysql lets it children now when it is
 leaving
\layout Itemize

Attempted to compile it into a library but still need help.
 As default it will compile as a regular program.
\layout Itemize

Other small fixes.
\layout Section*

.62.a (May 3 1998)
\layout Itemize

Added Template Queries
\layout Itemize

Created s separate SQLQuery object that is independent of an SQL connection.
\layout Itemize

You no longer have to import the data for the test program as the program
 creates the database and tables it needs.
\layout Itemize

Many small bug fixes.
\layout Section*

.61.1.a (April 28 1998)
\layout Itemize

Cleaned up the example code in test.cc and included it in the manual.
\layout Itemize

Added an interface layout plan to the manual.
\layout Itemize

Added a reverse iterator.
\layout Itemize

Fixed a bug with row.hh (It wasn't being included because of a typo).
\layout Section*

.61.0.a
\layout Itemize

Major interface changes.
 I warned you that the interface may change while it is in pre-alpha state
 and I wasn't kidding.
\layout Itemize

Created a new and Separate Query Object.
 You can no longer execute queries from the Mysql object instead you have
 to create a query object with Mysql::query() and use it to execute queries.
\layout Itemize

Added the comparison operators to MysqlDate, MysqlTime and MysqlDateTime.
 Fixed a few bugs in the MysqlDate...
 that effected the stream output and the conversion of them to strings.
\layout Itemize

Reflected the MysqlDate...
 changes in the manual.
\layout Itemize

Added a new MysqlSet object and a bunch of functions for working with mysql
 set strings.
 
\layout Section*

.60.3a (April 24 1998)
\layout Itemize

Changed strtoq and strtouq to strtoll and strtull for metter compatibility
 Minor Manual fix.
\layout Itemize

Changed makefile to make it more compatible with Solaris (Thanks Chris H)
\layout Itemize

Fixed bug in comparison functions so that they would compare in he right
 direction.
\layout Itemize

Added some items to the to do list be sure to have a look.
\layout Chapter

To Do
\layout Standard

These are in the order I plan on implementing them.
\layout Itemize

Improve the runtime type identification system for the sql types which will
 be needed for the mutable results sets and the binary operators in particular.
\layout Itemize

Improve the mutable results sets so that they can be assigned types that
 are not strings setting the sql type aproprestly.
 Also allow the SQLtype to be fixed so that when the programmer assigned
 a type to the data field that is not compatible with that sql type it will
 through an exception.
 For example setting an string to an int.
\layout Itemize

Change the behavior of MysqlString when used with binary operators.
 Instead of converting to the type on the other side of the operator have
 it convert to the type the Mysql server said it originally was.
\layout Itemize

Improve the Null adapters to make them more intelligently.
\layout Itemize

Be able to store the result set in an assignable container that stores the
 results in the format they were originally stored in on the server.
 (Not sure what the best way to go about this is.
 If you have any ideas let me know.) 
\layout Itemize

Better handling of the destruction of the Mysql class.
 Have it first tell all its children that its parent is getting destroys
 and have then respond appropreatly.
 (Partly implemented as of version .63.1.a) 
\layout Itemize

Create a container to hold Mysql enums and sets as a bit set as opposed
 to a list of STL set.
 
\layout Itemize

Have a more intelligent MysqlRes that can reexecute to refresh the data.
 
\layout Itemize

Create full fledged client side cursors
\layout Standard

If you have anything else you want to see let us know at sinisa@cytanet.com.cy
 or monty@mysql.com.
 
\layout Chapter

Credits
\layout Standard

The following is an informal list of programs and people I would like to
 thank.
\layout Itemize

egcs - for the great compiler (egcs.cygnus.com)
\layout Itemize

Perl - for making my life in general a lot easier (www.perl.com)
\layout Itemize

Lyx - as a great tool for helping me with this manual (www.lyx.org)
\layout Itemize

perceps - As a great tool for extracting documentation from the source (friga.mer.
utexas.edu/mark/perl/perceps/)
\layout Itemize

latex2html - For making the html version of this document possible (www-dsed.llnl.
gov/files/programs/unix/latex2html/)
\layout Itemize

lynx - For manking the text version of this document possible.
\layout Itemize

Mysql - for obvious reasons (www.tcx.se)
\layout Itemize

Xemacs - the editor of choice
\layout Itemize

Debian/GNU Linux - The platform I developed this on (www.debian.org)
\layout Itemize

Chris Halverson - For helping me get it to compile under Solaris.
\layout Itemize

Fredric Fredricson - For a long talk about automatic conversions.
\layout Itemize

Michael Widenius - Mysql developer who has been very supportive of my efforts.
\layout Itemize

Paul J.
 Lucas -For the original idea of treating the query object like a stream.
\layout Itemize

Scott Barron - For helping me with the shared libraries.
\layout Itemize

Jools Enticknap - For giving me the Template Queries Idea.
\layout Itemize

M.
 S.
 Sriram - For a detailed dission of how the Template Queries should be implement
ed, the suggestion to throw exceptions on bad queries, and the idea of having
 a back-end independent query object (ie SQLQuery).
\layout Itemize

Sinisa Milivojevic - For becoming the new offical maintainer.
\layout Standard

If you fell that I forgot something please let me know.
\layout Chapter

Copyright
\layout Standard

The Mysql++ API is copyright 1998 by Kevin Atkinson and 1999 by MySQL and
 is released under the LGPL license .
\layout Standard

The intent of doing this is allow developers to use my library to develop
 commercial programs and to allow it be distributed with commercial databases.
\layout Section

LGPL
\layout Standard
\align center 
GNU LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE 
\newline 
Version 2, June 1991
\layout Standard

Copyright (C) 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
 
\layout Quote

59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA 
\layout Standard

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
 document, but changing it is not allowed.
\layout Standard

[This is the first released version of the library GPL.
 It is numbered 2 because it goes with version 2 of the ordinary GPL.]
\layout Standard
\align center 
Preamble
\layout Standard

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to
 share and change it.
 By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are intended to guarantee
 your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the software
 is free for all its users.
\layout Standard

This license, the Library General Public License, applies to some specially
 designated Free Software Foundation software, and to any other libraries
 whose authors decide to use it.
 You can use it for your libraries, too.
\layout Standard

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price.
 Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the
 freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service
 if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it if you want it,
 that you can change the software or use pieces of it in new free programs;
 and that you know you can do these things.
\layout Standard

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone
 to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.
 These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you
 distribute copies of the library, or if you modify it.
\layout Standard

For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or
 for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you.
 You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code.
 If you link a program with the library, you must provide complete object
 files to the recipients so that they can relink them with the library,
 after making changes to the library and recompiling it.
 And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.
\layout Standard

Our method of protecting your rights has two steps: (1) copyright the library,
 and (2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
 distribute and/or modify the library.
\layout Standard

Also, for each distributor's protection, we want to make certain that everyone
 understands that there is no warranty for this free library.
 If the library is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipient
s to know that what they have is not the original version, so that any problems
 introduced by others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.
\layout Standard

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents.
 We wish to avoid the danger that companies distributing free software will
 individually obtain patent licenses, thus in effect transforming the program
 into proprietary software.
 To prevent this, we have made it clear that any patent must be licensed
 for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.
\layout Standard

Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary
 GNU General Public License, which was designed for utility programs.
 This license, the GNU Library General Public License, applies to certain
 designated libraries.
 This license is quite different from the ordinary one; be sure to read
 it in full, and don't assume that anything in it is the same as in the
 ordinary license.
\layout Standard

The reason we have a separate public license for some libraries is that
 they blur the distinction we usually make between modifying or adding to
 a program and simply using it.
 Linking a program with a library, without changing the library, is in some
 sense simply using the library, and is analogous to running a utility program
 or application program.
 However, in a textual and legal sense, the linked executable is a combined
 work, a derivative of the original library, and the ordinary General Public
 License treats it as such.
\layout Standard

Because of this blurred distinction, using the ordinary General Public License
 for libraries did not effectively promote software sharing, because most
 developers did not use the libraries.
 We concluded that weaker conditions might promote sharing better.
\layout Standard

However, unrestricted linking of non-free programs would deprive the users
 of those programs of all benefit from the free status of the libraries
 themselves.
 This Library General Public License is intended to permit developers of
 non-free programs to use free libraries, while preserving your freedom
 as a user of such programs to change the free libraries that are incorporated
 in them.
 (We have not seen how to achieve this as regards changes in header files,
 but we have achieved it as regards changes in the actual functions of the
 Library.) The hope is that this will lead to faster development of free
 libraries.
\layout Standard

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
 follow.
 Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the library"
 and a "work that uses the library".
 The former contains code derived from the library, while the latter only
 works together with the library.
\layout Standard

Note that it is possible for a library to be covered by the ordinary General
 Public License rather than by this special one.
\layout Standard
\align center 
GNU LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
\newline 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION
\layout Standard

0.
 This License Agreement applies to any software library which contains a
 notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized party saying
 it may be distributed under the terms of this Library General Public License
 (also called "this License").
 Each licensee is addressed as "you".
\layout Standard

A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared
 so as to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some
 of those functions and data) to form executables.
\layout Standard

The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which
 has been distributed under these terms.
 A "work based on the Library" means either the Library or any derivative
 work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the Library
 or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated
 straightforwardly into another language.
 (Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in the term "modificat
ion".)
\layout Standard

"Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
 modifications to it.
 For a library, complete source code means all the source code for all modules
 it contains, plus any associated interface definition files, plus the scripts
 used to control compilation and installation of the library.
\layout Standard

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered
 by this License; they are outside its scope.
 The act of running a program using the Library is not restricted, and output
 from such a program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based
 on the Library (independent of the use of the Library in a tool for writing
 it).
 Whether that is true depends on what the Library does and what the program
 that uses the Library does.
 1.
 You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete source
 code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously
 and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice
 and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this
 License and to the absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this
 License along with the Library.
\layout Standard

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you
 may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.
\layout Standard

2.
 You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it,
 thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such
 modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that
 you also meet all of these conditions:
\layout Standard
\pextra_type 1 \pextra_width 0.5in

a) The modified work must itself be a software library.
\layout Standard
\pextra_type 1 \pextra_width 0.5in

b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating
 that you changed the files and the date of any change.
\layout Standard
\pextra_type 1 \pextra_width 0.5in

c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all
 third parties under the terms of this License.
\layout Standard
\pextra_type 1 \pextra_width 0.5in

d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table
 of data to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility,
 other than as an argument passed when the facility is invoked, then you
 must make a good faith effort to ensure that, in the event an application
 does not supply such function or table, the facility still operates, and
 performs whatever part of its purpose remains meaningful.
\layout Standard

(For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a purpose
 that is entirely well-defined independent of the application.
 Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any application-supplied function
 or table used by this function must be optional: if the application does
 not supply it, the square root function must still compute square roots.)
\layout Standard

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.
 If identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Library,
 and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in themselves,
 then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those sections when you
 distribute them as separate works.
 But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
 work based on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the
 terms of this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to
 the entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote
 it.
\layout Standard

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
 rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise
 the right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works
 based on the Library.
\layout Standard

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with
 the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage
 or distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of
 this License.
\layout Standard

3.
 You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public License
 instead of this License to a given copy of the Library.
 To do this, you must alter all the notices that refer to this License,
 so that they refer to the ordinary GNU General Public License, version
 2, instead of to this License.
 (If a newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License
 has appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.) Do
 not make any other change in these notices.
\layout Standard

Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy,
 so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies
 and derivative works made from that copy.
\layout Standard

This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library
 into a program that is not a library.
\layout Standard

4.
 You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of
 it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms
 of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete
 corresponding machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under
 the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software
 interchange.
\layout Standard

If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a
 designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code
 from the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the source
 code, even though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along
 with the object code.
\layout Standard

5.
 A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but
 is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it,
 is called a "work that uses the Library".
 Such a work, in isolation, is not a derivative work of the Library, and
 therefore falls outside the scope of this License.
\layout Standard

However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates
 an executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains
 portions of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library".
 The executable is therefore covered by this License.
 Section 6 states terms for distribution of such executables.
\layout Standard

When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that
 is part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a derivative
 work of the Library even though the source code is not.
 Whether this is true is especially significant if the work can be linked
 without the Library, or if the work is itself a library.
 The threshold for this to be true is not precisely defined by law.
\layout Standard

If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure layouts
 and accessors, and small macros and small inline functions (ten lines or
 less in length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted, regardless
 of whether it is legally a derivative work.
 (Executables containing this object code plus portions of the Library will
 still fall under Section 6.)
\layout Standard

Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute
 the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6.
 Any executables containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether
 or not they are linked directly with the Library itself.
\layout Standard

6.
 As an exception to the Sections above, you may also compile or link a "work
 that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing portions
 of the Library, and distribute that work under terms of your choice, provided
 that the terms permit modification of the work for the customer's own use
 and reverse engineering for debugging such modifications.
\layout Standard

You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library
 is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License.
 You must supply a copy of this License.
 If the work during execution displays copyright notices, you must include
 the copyright notice for the Library among them, as well as a reference
 directing the user to the copy of this License.
 Also, you must do one of these things:
\layout Standard
\pextra_type 1 \pextra_width 0.5in

a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable source
 code for the Library including whatever changes were used in the work (which
 must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is
 an executable linked with the Library, with the complete machine-readable
 "work that uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that
 the user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified executabl
e containing the modified Library.
 (It is understood that the user who changes the contents of definitions
 files in the Library will not necessarily be able to recompile the application
 to use the modified definitions.)
\layout Standard
\pextra_type 1 \pextra_width 0.5in

b) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three years,
 to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above,
 for a charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution.
\layout Standard
\pextra_type 1 \pextra_width 0.5in

c) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a
 designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified materials
 from the same place.
\layout Standard
\pextra_type 1 \pextra_width 0.5in

d) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or
 that you have already sent this user a copy.
\layout Standard

For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the Library"
 must include any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the executabl
e from it.
 However, as a special exception, the source code distributed need not include
 anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary form)
 with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating
 system on which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies
 the executable.
\layout Standard

It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions
 of other proprietary libraries that do not normally accompany the operating
 system.
 Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library together
 in an executable that you distribute.
\layout Standard

7.
 You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library side-by-s
ide in a single library together with other library facilities not covered
 by this License, and distribute such a combined library, provided that
 the separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other
 library facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these
 two things:
\layout Standard
\pextra_type 1 \pextra_width 0.5in

a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on
 the Library, uncombined with any other library facilities.
 This must be distributed under the terms of the Sections above.
\layout Standard
\pextra_type 1 \pextra_width 0.5in

b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part
 of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the
 accompanying uncombined form of the same work.
\layout Standard

8.
 You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library
 except as expressly provided under this License.
 Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute
 the Library is void, and will automatically terminate your rights under
 this License.
 However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under this
 License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such parties
 remain in full compliance.
\layout Standard

9.
 You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed
 it.
 However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the
 Library or its derivative works.
 These actions are prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.
 Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Library (or any work based
 on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so,
 and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
 the Library or works based on it.
\layout Standard

10.
 Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the Library),
 the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor
 to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these terms
 and conditions.
 You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise
 of the rights granted herein.
 You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties to this
 License.
\layout Standard

11.
 If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent infringement
 or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions are
 imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that contradict
 the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the conditions
 of this License.
 If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations
 under this License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence
 you may not distribute the Library at all.
 For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution
 of the Library by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through
 you, then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would
 be to refrain entirely from distribution of the Library.
\layout Standard

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
 particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply,
 and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.
\layout Standard

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents
 or other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims;
 this section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free
 software distribution system which is implemented by public license practices.
 Many people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
 distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of
 that system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
 to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose
 that choice.
\layout Standard

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be
 a consequence of the rest of this License.
\layout Standard

12.
 If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain
 countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original
 copyright holder who places the Library under this License may add an explicit
 geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
 distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded.
 In such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in
 the body of this License.
\layout Standard

13.
 The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
 the Library General Public License from time to time.
 Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but
 may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.
\layout Standard

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.
 If the Library specifies a version number of this License which applies
 to it and "any later version", you have the option of following the terms
 and conditions either of that version or of any later version published
 by the Free Software Foundation.
 If the Library does not specify a license version number, you may choose
 any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.
\layout Standard

14.
 If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs
 whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the
 author to ask for permission.
 For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation, write
 to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.
 Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status
 of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and
 reuse of software generally.
\layout Standard
\align center 
NO WARRANTY
\layout Standard

15.
 BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR
 THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
 EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER
 PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
 EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
 OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
 THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE LIBRARY IS WITH
 YOU.
 SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY
 SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.
\layout Standard

16.
 IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL
 ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE
 THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING
 ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF
 THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS
 OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR
 THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE),
 EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY
 OF SUCH DAMAGES.
\layout Standard
\align center 
END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS
\layout Standard
\align center 
How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries
\layout Standard

If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest possible
 use to the public, we recommend making it free software that everyone can
 redistribute and change.
 You can do so by permitting redistribution under these terms (or, alternatively
, under the terms of the ordinary General Public License).
\layout Standard

To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library.
 It is safest to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectivel
y convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the
 "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.
\layout Quote

<one line to give the library's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
\newline 
Copyright (C) <year> <name of author>
\layout Quote

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
 under the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as published
 by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
 your option) any later version.
\layout Quote

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
 ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
 FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
 See the GNU Library General Public License for more details.
\layout Quote

You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public License
 along with this library; if not, write to the Free Foundation, Inc., 59
 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA
\layout Standard

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.
\layout Standard

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
 school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if necessary.
 Here is a sample; alter the names:
\layout Quote

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the library `Frob'
 (a library for tweaking knobs) written by James Random Hacker.
\layout Quote

<signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1990 Ty Coon, President of Vice
\layout Standard

That's all there is to it!
\layout Chapter

Feedback
\layout Standard

Since October 1999, all maintenance has been transferred to Sinisa Milivojevic
 (sinisa@cytanet.com.cy) and Michael Widenius (monty@mysql.com).
\layout Standard

Send your feedback to any of these addresses, or even better to the mailing
 list mysql-plusplus@lists.mysql.com.
\the_end
